README.MD, before:

# Basic statistic cheatsheet

## Cases, variables and levels of measurement

Any data set is consists of **cases**: the objects in the collection. Each case has one or more attributes or qualities, called **variables**. This word “variable” emphasizes that it is differences or variation that is often of primary interest. Cases are something or someone for study. Variables are characteristics of something or someone.

### Levels of measurement

The **nominal** variable is made up of various categories, that distinguish from each other, but without order. For example, the nationality of football players (Spanish, French or Mexican) is different from each other, but there is no ranking order.

**Ordinal level** has not only a difference between categories of variables, there is also an order. For example, an order in a football competition. But we don’t know how much team #1 was better than team #2.

With **interval level** we have different categories and an order, but also similar intervals between categories. For example, the age of the football players.

**Ratio level** is like an interval level but has meaningful zero point. For example, the height of football players.

Quantitive variables can also be distinguished in **discrete** and **continuous**.

The method which we employ to analyze data depends on levels of measurement.

|              |          | Difference | Order | Similar intervals | Meaningful zero point |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Categorical  | Nominal  | + | - | - | - |
|              | Ordinal  | + | + | - | - |
| Quantitative | Interval | + | + | + | - |
|              | Ratio    | + | + | + | + |

Commit message:

Data matrix and frequency table

README.MD, after:

# Basic statistic cheatsheet

## 1. Cases, variables and levels of measurement

Any data set is consists of **cases**: the objects in the collection. Each case has one or more attributes or qualities, called **variables**. This word “variable” emphasizes that it is differences or variation that is often of primary interest. Cases are something or someone for study. Variables are characteristics of something or someone.

### Levels of measurement

The **nominal** variable is made up of various categories, that distinguish from each other, but without order. For example, the nationality of football players (Spanish, French or Mexican) is different from each other, but there is no ranking order.

**Ordinal level** has not only a difference between categories of variables, there is also an order. For example, an order in a football competition. But we don’t know how much team #1 was better than team #2.

With **interval level** we have different categories and an order, but also similar intervals between categories. For example, the age of the football players.

**Ratio level** is like an interval level but has meaningful zero point. For example, the height of football players.

Quantitive variables can also be distinguished in **discrete** and **continuous**.

The method which we employ to analyze data depends on levels of measurement.

|              |          | Difference | Order | Similar intervals | Meaningful zero point |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Categorical  | Nominal  | + | - | - | - |
|              | Ordinal  | + | + | - | - |
| Quantitative | Interval | + | + | + | - |
|              | Ratio    | + | + | + | + |

## 2. Data matrix and frequency table

The **data matrix** is a table with all values of variables for each case. So, it's source of all data for analysis.

|            | Age | Salary |
|---|---|---|
| Worker #1 | 20 | 2 000 |
| Worker #2 | 30 | 3 000  |
| Worker #3 | 40 | 4 000 |

The **frequency table** as a list of all possible values of variable with appropriate **percentage** and **cumulative percentage**.

| Hair color | Frequency | Percentage (%) | Cumulative percentage (%)
|---|---|---|
| Blond | 3 | 30 | 30 |
| Black | 6 | 60  | 90 |
| Ginger | 1 | 10 | 100 |
| Total | 10 | 100 | 100 |
